# [Stylelabs QA Manual](../index)

## Screenshot utility

### Description

The screenshot utility tool is a tool that will create a matrix with a set of URL paths of M pages and a set of configurations. 
A configuration is a unique combination of an operating system, a screen resolution and a browser.  
For each combination of a URL and a configuration, the screenshot utility will take a screenshot of the  resulting page, and store the image to a destination folder.

### Parameters
* jsonPath: The path to the configuration file
* createTemplate: Allow to get all supported browsers configuration
* templateFor: Allow to get specified supported browsers configuration
* workers: The amount of workers taking screenshots in parallel
* targetPath: The path where screenshots will be saved to
* h: display help information

### Configuration
TODO PVD

### Usage
####Help
    Stylelabs.M.ScreenshotUtilty.exe -h

####List available configurations
To generate an example config file with a list of all supported configurations, the screenshot utility should be run with the following parameters:
    
    Stylelabs.M.ScreenshotUtilty.exe -createTemplate

A JSON-file "template.json" will be created. This file will contain a configuration file with a basic format, and empty content for the nodes credentials, baseConfiguration and cultures. 
The node targetUrls will contain some example URLS.
The node browserConfiguration will be filled with all supported combinations of OS, browser and resolution.

    {
          "browserName": "firefox",
          "browserVersion": "26.0",
          "osName": "OS X",
          "osVersion": "Lion",
          "device": null,
          "resolutions": [
              "1024x768",
              "1280x960",
              "1280x1024",
              "1600x1200",
              "1920x1080"
          ],
          "resolution": null
    },

It is also possible to specify a browser. The created template file will contain only configurations for this bowser.

    Stylelabs.M.ScreenshotUtilty.exe -templateFor=BROWSERNAME
	
A JSON-file "template.json" will be created. This file will contain a configuration file with a basic format, and empty content for the nodes credentials, baseConfiguration and cultures. 
The node targetUrls will contain some example URLS.
The node browserConfiguration will be filled with all supported combinations of OS, the selected browser and resolution.
	
####Create screenshots
Screenshots can be generated by not using the templateFor or createTemplate parameters.

    Stylelabs.M.ScreenshotUtilty.exe -jsonPath=CONFIGFILE -targetPath=OUTPUTFOLDER -workers=NUMBEROFWORKERS -targetPathFormat="%URL%\%CONFIGURATION%_%RESOLUTION%"

Screenshots will be written to the specified output location. Subfolders will be created for each operating system, browser and resolution. The grouping of the folders, subfolders and the files can be specified by using the targetPathFormat.
The number of workers is optional. Each worker will be initialized for a specific configuration, and will take all the screenshots for a specified configuration. 